CSG Engineering Units (#33105)
idaholab/moose: framework/doc/content/source/csg/CSGBase.md

Reviewer: Does it make sense to create a `CSGNPolgonUnit.md` file? I'm thinking I should create similar markdown pages for the PinEngeeringUnit that I am working on in reactor module. This page can describe the attributes of the engineering unit, how the expandUnit function works, what the parameters are for the constructor etc.

Reviewer 2: Feel free to do that yes. 
doc/content/source is meant to be source doco too, that's why we document interfaces there notably

Author: added a new document

!alert-end!

!alert! note title=Expanding Nested Engineering Units

It is allowable to define an expansion method for an engineering unit that creates additional `CSGEngUnit` objects during the expansion process. If `expandUnit()` is called on a single engineering unit, any newly generated engineering units will not be subsequently expanded. However, if `expandAllEngUnits()` is called, any additionally created `CSGEngUnit` objects will also be expanded recursively until no more `CSGEngUnit` objects remain.

!alert-end!

If an engineering unit has [transformations](#transformations) applied to it, those transformations will be transferred to the appropriate expanded objects after expansion.
For `CSGCellEngUnit` and `CSGUniverseEngUnit`, this means that the returned `CSGCell` and `CSGUniverse` will have the same transformations.
For `CSGSurfaceEngUnit` types, this means that each new `CSGSurface` that is a part of the expanded `CSGRegion` will have the transformations applied.

> #### N-Sided Regular Polygon Unit

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Example: a N-Sided Regular Polygon engineering unit
```

Author: I moved this entire section to it's own dedicated file and expanded on it.

!alert-end!

### Engineering Units

> [Engineering units](syntax/CSG/index.md#engineering-units) are simplified objects that are defined in user-friendly domain-specific terms that can be used in a "plug-and-play" manner as a surface, cell, or universe in a [!ac](CSG) definition.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Engineering units](syntax/CSG/index.md#engineering-units) are CSG classes that are defined in user-friendly domain-specific terms that can be used in a "plug-and-play" manner as a surface, cell, or universe in a [!ac](CSG) definition.
```

Like surfaces and lattices, an engineering unit is defined by calling the specific constructor directly to create a unique pointer.
This pointer is then added to the `CSGBase` instance using `addEngUnit()`, which will return a const reference to that engineering unit.
The `addEngUnit()` method is a templated method, meaning that the return type will be a reference to the specific unit type if requested.

> Otherwise, if a return type is not specified, a generic `CSGEngUnit` type will be returned.

Reviewer 2: do we need the extra routine for this?

Reviewer 2: the templated one access unique ptr whereas the non templated one takes a reference

maybe we should delete this statement

Author: I don't understand what you are referring to as the "non templated" one. There is one `addEngUnit` method in CSGBase and it is actually templated without a default so this final statement isn't correct anyway. I will remove it.

An example of creating an N-sided polygon unit is shown below.

!listing CSGBaseTest.C start=define a 4-sided polygon end=addEngUnit include-end=true

!listing CSGBaseTest.C start=make a 4-sided polygon with apothem length 2.0 end=addEngUnit include-end=true

#### Behavior

> Engineering units can behave as a `CSGSurface` (defined as a `CSGSurfaceEngUnit`), `CSGCell` (defined as a `CSGCellEngUnit`), or `CSGUniverse` (defined as a `CSGUniverseEngUnit`), depending on the specific engineering unit implementation and definition.

Reviewer 2: do we need them to behave like surfaces?
what units are we expecting (might need to read shift manual for that)

Author: Yes, we need the surface ones because we need things like polygons and other composite surfaces. At a minimum, we need CSGSurfaceEngUnits (N-Polygon) and CSGUninverseEngUnit (Pincell). We are also thinking there may need to be a cell-version of the polygon unit (TBD). 

This is also how you might have an explicit definition for RPP (like MCNP) or HexangonalPrism or RectangularPrism (OpenMC). Titan has surface shapes that have cutouts and such if I recall. I suspect we will need to define more surface types as we go along with updating or defining the generateCSG methods.

Reviewer 3: Titan does not need them to behave like surfaces. We really only need the engineering unit definition on a metadata level. I cannot post manual examples here, but all of our surface information is built under the hood after the geometry definition is finished. 

Looking at `CSGNPolygonUnit.h` though, it seems that the surface information only exists once `expandUnit()` is called. So far unsure on the difference between universe/cell/surface descriptions but I'll keep reading through the MR. Titan will only use the apothem and number of sides in the `CSGNPolygonUnit` example.

Author: for all intents and purposes, the CSGSurfaceEngUnits are meant to be used as regions and in place of some or all of a region definition for a cell.

> Titan will only use the apothem and number of sides in the CSGNPolygonUnit example.

This is the intention here. Basically we expect that Titan will just read the type and attributes of the units and construct what you need from that. Whether or not something is a cell, surface, or universe could be irrelevant for you in the end if all is defined in terms of units. Having these things set to "behave as" something else is how we fit it into the existing framework cohesively.

Reviewer 2: right the engineering unit offer effectively both the metadata and the capabilities once expanded. 

ok for surfaces for me.

Because each engineering unit is technically derived from a basic CSG component (`CSGSurface`, `CSGCell`, and `CSGUniverse`), each engineering unit is stored and managed in `CSGBase` as if were an object of that type.
For all rudimentary component types, any getter-type method for that component is also usable on the derived `CSGEngUnit` objects too.
This means that calling methods like `getAllSurfaces()` or `getSurfaceByName` will include any `CSGSurfaceEngUnit` types in the query.
Similarly, methods like `hasCell(name)` will return `true` if a `CSGCellEngUnit` exists that is called `name`.
Not all methods that alter an object are available though.
Below is a table that shows which of the `CSGBase` non-getter-type methods are usable for each type of `CSGEngUnit`.

| Method                      | `CSGSurfaceEngUnit` | `CSGCellEngUnit` | `CSGUniverseEngUnit` |
|-----------------------------|---------------------|------------------|----------------------|
| `addSurface`                | no | - | - |
| `renameSurface`             | yes | - | - |
| `deleteSurface`             | yes | - | - |

> | `createCell`                | yes, as a `CSGSurface` in the region | no | yes as a fill, but not as the "add-to" universe |

Reviewer 2: why does createCell add a CSGSurface (second column)? Why not implement under addSurface?

Author: It means that you can use a CSGSurfaceEngUnit as surface of a region when defining a plain CSGCell with createCell.

Reviewer 2: ok makes sense

Reviewer 2: my confusion was that I was thinking these were CSGObjects routines not CSGBase. but works for CSGBase

| `renameCell`                | - | yes | - |
| `deleteCell`                | - | yes | - |

> | `updateCellRegion`          | yes, as a `CSGSurface` in the region | no | - |

Reviewer 2: not sure I understand why a SurfaceEngUnit can update its cell region?

Author: surface engineering units are meant to be used in place of surfaces/regions, so this is pretty much the only place in which you even can use a surface eng unit.

| `resetCellFill`             | - | no | - |
| `updateCellFill`            | - | no | yes |
| `createUniverse`            | - | yes | no |
| `renameUniverse`            | - | - | yes |
| `deleteUniverse`            | - | - | yes |
| `addCell[s]ToUniverse`      | - | yes | no |

> | `removeCell[s]FromUniverse` | - | yes | no |

Reviewer 2: add details for the 'yes'
is there a universe inside the CellEngUnit? why would you be able to add cells to it

Author: A CellEngUnit could be one of the cells of a universe. A CSGUniverse is just a container for a list of cells, which can be a mix of cell units or regulare cells. The UniverseEngUnit doesn't have the concept of cells in the same way (because it is defined through the attributes and the cells are ultimately derived from those), so that is why you cannot use a universe engineering unit in this call.

Reviewer 2: yup I misunderstood there routines

!alert-end!

!alert! note title=Expanding Nested Engineering Units

It is allowable to define an expansion method for an engineering unit that creates additional `CSGEngUnit` objects during the expansion process. If `expandUnit()` is called on a single engineering unit, any newly generated engineering units will not be subsequently expanded. However, if `expandAllEngUnits()` is called, any additionally created `CSGEngUnit` objects will also be expanded recursively until no more `CSGEngUnit` objects remain.

!alert-end!

If an engineering unit has [transformations](#transformations) applied to it, those transformations will be transferred to the appropriate expanded objects after expansion.
For `CSGCellEngUnit` and `CSGUniverseEngUnit`, this means that the returned `CSGCell` and `CSGUniverse` will have the same transformations.
For `CSGSurfaceEngUnit` types, this means that each new `CSGSurface` that is a part of the expanded `CSGRegion` will have the transformations applied.

> #### N-Sided Regular Polygon Unit

Reviewer 2: should this be moved under the example implementation section

Author: I have both mixed and not-so strong feelings about this particular documentation. I felt it was necessary to include specific documentation on this one unit type because engineering units are not common knowledge, but really it is in the same boat as all the derived surface types (CSGSphere, CSGPlane, etc) which do not have any specific documentation written for them (CSGSphere I think is used as an example implementation in the CSGSurface.md documentation but no other type-specific documentation existts). CSGNPolygonUnit is used in the same way as an example implementation in the CSGEngUnit.md doc too. So ya, it is already included as an example implementation there, but idk if this particular section should even be included at all in any other part of the documentation.

Reviewer 2: ok let's just change the title

> 

Reviewer 2: add EngUnit?

Author: this is just a list of cases where an error is thrown if the delete method is called. deleteEngUnit defers to the plain object deletion method, so these error/checks still apply based on the type that it is, but there are no engineering unit specific errors thrown like this to add to the list.
